# Protocol 2016-05-12
---
## Install PlatformIO
Download Debian Package (Just google it). Then install it with the following commands:
   
    apt-get -f install
    dpkg packageio.deb

Add yourself to the dialout group then, to be able to deploy over the serial port:

    useradd -G dialout username

Dont forget to log out and in again afterwards!

## Install Arduino IDE

Download the tar.gz file from the web. Unzip the file and move the resulting folder into the /opt-folder:

    tar -xvf arduino.tar.xz
    sudo mv arduino /opt
    
In this folder add execute rights to the install shell script and run it:

    chmod +x install.sh
    ./install.sh

## Install the PubSubClient
* Arduino IDE: Sketch -> Include Library -> Manage Libraries -> search and install PubSubClient
* PlatformIO: 
    

    pio lib search PubSubClient
    pio lib install 89

Note: The number 89 is the package number displayed after running the first command.

## Other

Check if the TTY serial cable is working, execute the ```dmsg```. It will print information on (not only) plugged in hardware.

Set root password in linux, when root user was not activated:

    sudo passwd



# OpenHab

Tutorial: http://www.openhab.org/getting-started/

Install Java on PI:
    apt-get install oracle-java7-jdk
    
    
Download the openHAB runtime was well as the demo. Install *unzip* to easily unzip the archive and unzip both files into ```/opt/openhab```. Finally copy the default config.
    
    wget https://bintray.com/artifact/download/openhab/bin/distribution-1.8.2-runtime.zip
    wget https://bintray.com/artifact/download/openhab/bin/distribution-1.8.2-demo.zip
    apt-get install unzip
    unzip distribution-1.8.2-runtime.zip -d /opt/openhab
    unzip distribution-1.8.2-demo.zip -d /opt/openhab
    cd /opt/openhab/configurations
    cp openhab_default.cfg openhab.cfg
    cd ../

Finally execute the start script and wait until it has fully loaded everything. This takes some time! Even when you think it's done it is not.
   
    cd ./start.sh

When it's finally loaded go to the webite to see the demo:
http://192.168.0.101:8080/openhab.app?sitemap=demo

*Pitfall*: I installed java with ```apt-get install gcj-jre```, which installed the 1.5 version that is not supported by openHAB. Uninstalling via ```apt-get remove gcj-jre``` did not work. I used aptitude then to remove the old java version finally.
